I'm Claire Harrison qvs Development chef
today I'm going to show you how to make
perfect mash so here we have some
potatoes these potatoes are bought
specifically for mashing they're Ammar
phoner potato but there are lots of
other varieties you can use we start by
giving the potatoes a thorough thorough
wash it's very important when using
dirty potatoes that you really do wash
them and wash all the surfaces that
potato has come into contact with okay
we're going to peel the potatoes
then I'm going to cut them into not too
small chunks because it'll take on too
much water but cut them into quarters
chance about that size
all evenly sized so they all cook at the
same rate I'm going to pop them into a
pan and add cold water so salt a little
bit of salt
we'll have to taste and adjust the
seasoning when we're making the mash but
always put them in salted water cover
them and bring them to the ball very
very slowly until until the bubbles just
break the surface and then we simmer
very gently until they're just tender
for everyday eating I would put a very
small knob of butter in and a little bit
of warm milk but today I think are
feeling indulgent so we're going to add
we're going to add a lot more butter a
little bit of double cream and some
whole milk and of course salt and pepper
so we're going to have a look and see if
these are cooked the easiest way is to
get a knife and just put the point of
the knife in the potato and it should go
in very easily which it does drain them
thoroughly
careful not to splash then pop them back
in the pan
and then we're just going to put the lid
back on leave them there for a couple of
minutes in the meantime I'm going to
take this milk I'm going to heat this
milk up it's absolutely essential that
the milk is the same temperature as the
potatoes when you add it otherwise it
makes the starch go cold and it gives
you lumps in your mashed potato right so
we've got our hot milk here boiling milk
here and our potatoes now they've really
dried out beautifully take our potatoes
let's fill a dress this over it goes
this is the gadget I prefer it's called
a potato press it makes a great smooth
mash so you put some potato in and then
knob of your butter squeeze it through
so it starts to incorporate in with your
mashed potato that last couple of
seconds where you put the lid on and
leave the potatoes to dry out really
important it's hitting here they're
they're really dry and fluffy and with a
knob of butter remember this is a
special treat mash it's not for every
day this is not diet mash
and with our trusty wooden spoon start
just to draw the potato together and as
you see because this is the right
variety it draws together it almost
looks like it's almost like pulling
dough together it's a bit of milk it's a
light with a little bit and with a spoon
with some double cream actually to make
a really indulgent mashed potato add
clotted cream it's heaven tiny bit of
black pepper not too much because you
don't it to overpower the flavor of the
potato mix pop it in ER
yes give us a little bit of color I'm
going to chop few chives which go very
well with mashed potato
voila
you